.TH git-change-name 1 "2025-11-20" "change-name" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git-change-name \- rewrite author, committer, and Signed-off-by metadata in a Git repository

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git change-name
[\fB-oldName\fR <name>]
[\fB-oldEmail\fR <email>]
[\fB-newName\fR <name>]
[\fB-newEmail\fR <email>]
[\fB-signCommits\fR]
[\fB-signOnBranch\fR <branch>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgit change-name\fR rewrites all commit metadata in the current Git
repository by streaming history through
\fBgit fast-export\fR, modifying author and committer fields,
rewriting Signed-off-by lines, and importing the transformed history
with \fBgit fast-import\fR.

It replaces any occurrence of the specified old username or email with
new metadata while preserving commit timestamps. Commit message blocks
are rewritten safely using Git's data-length protocol.

Optionally, the tool can also re-sign each commit using
\fBgit commit-tree -S\fR, producing a new branch containing fully
rewritten and re-signed commits.

This tool modifies every commit hash in the repository and will require
a forced push.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -oldName " <name>"
Old author/committer name to match and replace.

.TP
.BR -oldEmail " <email>"
Old author/committer email to match and replace.

.TP
.BR -newName " <name>"
New name to apply to authors and committers.

.TP
.BR -newEmail " <email>"
New email to apply to authors and committers.

.TP
.BR -signCommits
After rewriting history, re-sign each commit using Git's configured
signing key. Disabled by default.

.TP
.BR -signOnBranch " <branch>"
Branch on which to write the re-signed commit chain.
Default: \fIresigned\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
Rewrite all commits authored by Old Dev:

.nf
    git change-name \\
        -oldName "Old Dev" \\
        -oldEmail old@example.com \\
        -newName "New Dev" \\
        -newEmail new@example.com
.fi

Rewrite and re-sign commits on the branch \fBre-signed-history\fR:

.nf
    git change-name \\
        -oldName Old \\
        -oldEmail old@example.com \\
        -newName New \\
        -newEmail new@example.com \\
        -signCommits \\
        -signOnBranch re-signed-history
.fi

.SH WARNINGS
This tool rewrites every commit in the repository.
You must force-push rewritten branches.
This will break Fork-Relations and everyone who is currently working on a copy of this repo has to force pull this repo.
This will break current pull requests.
This will break relationships between branches.

You probably have to redo this for every branch, you want to change your name in.
You probably want to bring your repo into a linear history for this tool to work best, and with the least amount of side-effects.

ONLY DO THIS ON GIT REPOSITORIES YOU OWN AND ARE NOT MISSION CRITICAL.

Signed tags may be stripped or rewritten.

.SH SEE ALSO
git-history-rewrite(7), git-fast-export(1), git-fast-import(1), git-commit-tree(1), git-filter-repo(1), git-re-sign(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by itsrye.dev
