.TH git-re-sign 1 "2025-11-20" "resign-commits" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
git re-sign \- rebuild and re-sign all commits in a Git repository

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git re-sign
[\fB-signCommits\fR]
[\fB-signOnBranch\fR <branch>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgit re-sign\fR reconstructs all commits in the current Git
repository and re-signs them using Git's configured signing
mechanism (GPG, SSH, or other supported signing methods).

The tool walks the commit graph in topological order using
\fBgit rev-list --reverse\fR, extracts each commit's tree,
parent list, author/committer metadata, and message, then generates a
new signed commit via \fBgit commit-tree -S\fR.

All rewritten commits are placed onto a new branch, leaving the
original branch untouched. This tool is typically used after rewriting
author or committer metadata, or when converting a repository to use
signed commits.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -signCommits
Whether to sign commits. Enabled by default.

.TP
.BR -signOnBranch " <branch>"
Branch to update to point to the newly signed commit chain.
Default: \fIresigned\fR.

.SH EXAMPLES
Re-sign all commits using the configured signing key:

.nf
    git re-sign
.fi

Re-sign commits and write them to a custom branch:

.nf
    git re-sign -signOnBranch fully-signed
.fi

.SH WARNINGS
This tool produces a completely new commit history and requires a
force push.

Because commits are rebuilt manually using commit-tree, any existing
GPG/SSH signatures are replaced.

.SH SEE ALSO
git-history-rewrite(7), git-commit-tree(1), git-rev-list(1), git-log(1), git-change-name(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by itsrye.dev
