.TH GIT-HISTORY-REWRITE 7 "2025-11-20" "Git History Rewrite Guide" "Miscellaneous"
.SH NAME
git-history-rewrite \- concepts and best practices for rewriting and re-signing Git history

.SH DESCRIPTION
Rewriting Git history is a powerful technique for modifying commits that
already exist in a repository. It can be used to replace author or
committer information, correct Signed-off-by lines, remove sensitive
data, re-sign commits, or restructure the commit graph. However, it is
a destructive operation that invalidates all existing commit hashes and
requires force-pushing rewritten branches.

This manual page describes the conceptual model of Git history
rewriting, explains the workflow used by tools such as
\fBgit change-name\fR and \fBgit re-sign\fR, and outlines best
practices for performing safe, predictable history rewrites.

.SH GIT OBJECT MODEL OVERVIEW
Git stores data in four primary object types:

.TP
.B blob
File contents.

.TP
.B tree
Directory structure containing blobs and subtrees.

.TP
.B commit
A snapshot pointer containing:
.IP \[bu] 2
Tree hash
.IP \[bu]
Parent commit hashes
.IP \[bu]
Author and committer metadata
.IP \[bu]
Commit message

.TP
.B tag
Annotated tags with optional signatures.

Every commit is immutable: any change to its metadata, message, or
parents produces a new object with a different hash.

.SH WHY REWRITE HISTORY?
History rewriting is commonly performed to:

.IP \[bu] 2
Fix incorrect author or committer names or emails
.IP \[bu]
Change a possibly no longer correct name in a git history (for various reasons)
.IP \[bu]
Correct Signed-off-by lines for projects using Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)
.IP \[bu]
Re-sign commits (for example, switching from GPG to SSH signing)
.IP \[bu]
Remove sensitive information from commit messages
.IP \[bu]
Import or merge foreign history cleanly
.IP \[bu]
Normalize metadata in multi-contributor or corporate repositories

.SH METHODS OF REWRITING HISTORY
Several approaches exist for rewriting Git history. These vary in
granularity, safety, and performance.

.SS git filter-repo
A high-level, flexible tool used for common rewrite operations such as
removing files, rewriting commit messages, or filtering branches.

.SS git rebase --interactive
Allows rewriting a linear sequence of commits, typically for cleaning
up a branch before merging.

.SS git fast-export / fast-import
A streaming method that exports the entire repository as a serialized
stream, allowing detailed transformation before re-importing it.

This method is used by \fBgit change-name\fR because it allows precise
control over author/committer fields and commit message payloads
without constructing a new DAG manually.

.SS git commit-tree
Creates a new commit object with explicitly defined tree, parents,
metadata, and signature. It is the foundation for tools that rewrite a
DAG while preserving structure.

This method is used by \fBgit re-sign\fR.

.SH HOW COMMIT RE-SIGNING WORKS
Re-signing commits does not alter file contents or tree hashes; instead,
each commit is rebuilt with identical metadata except for the signature.

The typical process is:

.IP 1. 4
Enumerate commits in topological order with \fBgit rev-list --reverse\fR.

.IP 2. 4
Extract each commit's tree, parents, author, committer, dates, and message.

.IP 3. 4
Use \fBgit commit-tree -S\fR to construct a new, signed commit.

.IP 4. 4
Replace parent references using a mapping of old hash → new hash.

.IP 5. 4
Write the rewritten graph to a new branch with \fBgit update-ref\fR.

This produces a commit graph identical in structure but with updated
signatures and hashes.

.SH RISKS AND IMPLICATIONS
Rewriting history is inherently disruptive:

.IP \[bu] 2
All rewrite operations produce new commits with new hashes.
.IP \[bu]
Force pushing is required.
.IP \[bu]
Collaborators must rebase or re-clone.
.IP \[bu]
Open pull requests will break.
.IP \[bu]
Tags may need to be updated manually.
.IP \[bu]
Signed commits and tags may be invalidated.

History rewriting should be performed only when necessary and only with
explicit coordination in multi-user repositories.

.SH BEST PRACTICES
To minimize risk and ensure reproducible results:

.IP \[bu] 2
Perform rewrites in a temporary clone or scratch directory.
.IP \[bu]
Do not rewrite shared branches without agreement from all contributors.
.IP \[bu]
Create a fresh branch for rewritten or re-signed history.
.IP \[bu]
Retain the original branch until the rewrite is validated.
.IP \[bu]
Verify rewritten commits with \fBgit log --show-signature\fR.
.IP \[bu]
Use \fBgit reflog expire\fR and \fBgit gc --prune=now\fR after confirming the new history.

.SH EXAMPLE WORKFLOW
A typical safe workflow for rewriting metadata and signatures:

.nf
    # 1. Rewrite authors and metadata
    git change-name \\
        -oldName "Old Dev" \\
        -oldEmail old@example.com \\
        -newName "New Dev" \\
        -newEmail new@example.com

    # 2. Re-sign the rewritten history
    git re-sign -signOnBranch fully-signed

    # 3. Inspect the new branch
    git log --show-signature fully-signed

    # 4. Clean up local reflog
    git reflog expire --expire=now --all
    git gc --prune=now --aggressive

    # 5. Force push your new history
    git push --force --tags origin 'refs/heads/*'
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
git-change-name(1), git-re-sign(1),
git-fast-export(1), git-fast-import(1),
git-commit-tree(1), git-filter-repo(1),
git-rebase(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by You.
